---
layout: page
title: Research
subtitle:  
---

Broadly speaking, I am interested in the study of evolution, of how and why the amazing variety of lifeforms we see all around us came to be the way they are. Mutation, recombination, genetic drift, gene flow and selection are all fundamentally important factors which can influence evolution. Understanding the interplay of these various processes is my main research interest.

More specifically, I am interested in the process of selection and how we can leverage DNA sequence data to make inferences about selective pressures faced by organisms. 

A lot of the research I have carried out has been on the house mouse (Mus musculus). For research in evolutionary genetics, mice are an excellent model system. There are very well developed genetic/genomic resources available for mice and, in addition, they have naturally very large population sizes which, for a variety of reasons, makes them suitable for evolutionary analysis.

I am currently a post-doc at the University of British Columbia working with Mike Whitlock and Sam Yeaman at the University of Calgary. I am working as part of the CoAdapTree project, which aims at identifying genes involved in local adaptation in a number of coniferous tree species. Under climate change, different tree species may face similar challenges, for example, changing temperatures and precipitation levels may adversely  

My role in the project is to help develop methods that can be used to measure the extent of local adaptation in different species and to quantify the extent to which different evolutionary have used the



<<<<<<< Updated upstream
If you spend enough time with me, I'm bound to start talking about selective sweeps and background selection. I am very interested in how these two processes affect variation in genetic diversity in eukaryotes, and specifically, what their footprints can tell us about moleular evolution.


## Current Projects

### Global adaptation in structured populations

I am currently working on a project looking at how global adaptation affects out ability to detect selecton using genome scans. In particular, we are asking whether recurrent positive selection generates Fst outliers in genome scans aimed at identifying local adaptation. 

This project is part of my postdoc with Mike Whitlock at UBC and Sam Yeaman at the University of Calgary.

### Adaptation molecular evolution in murid rodents

This project carries on where my 2018 MBE paper left off. In that paper, one of the main conclusions was that background selection on its own could not generate the troughs in diversity seen in *Mus musculus castaneus*, but that selective sweeps as generated by the parameters of the DFE estimated from the site frequnecy spectrum couldn't either. A way forward is to use the patterns of diversity to estimate parameters of positive selection that are consistent with observed data. We are pursuing this using a dataset containing population genomic data for the three principal sub-species of *Mus musculus* as well as the sister species *Mus spretus*

This work is in collaboration with researchers at the Universities of Edinburgh and Cambridge.

=======
>>>>>>> Stashed changes
